Given an unsorted array of integers, find the length of the longest consecutive elements sequence.

For example,
Given [100, 4, 200, 1, 3, 2],
The longest consecutive elements sequence is [1, 2, 3, 4]. Return its length: 4.

Your algorithm should run in O(n) complexity.

# Solution

If we ignore the time complexity, we may want to use a sorting algorithm, which in general has O(nlogn) time complexty.

However, this problem requires a O(n) time/space complexity.

We do have O(n) sorting algorithm:

* Counting sort : is an algorithm for sorting a collection of objects according to _keys that are small integers_; that is, it is an integer sorting algorithm. It operates by counting the number of objects that have each distinct key value, and using arithmetic on those counts to determine the positions of each key value in the output sequence. Its running time is linear in the number of items and the difference between the maximum and minimum key values, so _it is only suitable for direct use in situations where the variation in keys is not significantly greater than the number of items_. However, it is often used as a subroutine in another sorting algorithm, radix sort, that can handle larger keys more efficiently.
* Radix sort : is a non-comparative integer sorting algorithm that sorts data with integer keys by grouping keys by the individual digits which share the same significant position and value. A positional notation is required, but because integers can represent strings of characters (e.g., names or dates) and specially formatted floating point numbers, radix sort is not limited to integers.为什么要从低位开始向高位排序?如果要从高位排序, 那么次高位的排序会影响高位已经排好的大小关系. 在数学中, 数位越高,数位值对数的大小的影响就越大.从低位开始排序,就是对这种影响的排序. 数位按照影响力从低到高的顺序排序, 数位影响力相同则比较数位值.


In this problem, the numbers can have any value and their maximum difference can be huge, therefore counting sort is not a good option.
Radix-sort might be suitable but it can be hard to implement because here negative numbers are involved.

We will use HashMap. The key thing is to keep track of the sequence length and store that in the boundary points of the sequence. For example, as a result, for sequence {1, 2, 3, 4, 5}, map.get(1) and map.get(5) should both return 5. And __we should only update the HashMap when we meed a new number__. Continue with this example, right now {1, 2, 3, 4, 5} is one sequence we have, if now number 2 comes again, we should ignore it. Otherwise we will get left-length of 5 by callgin map.get(1), and some right-length by calling map.get(3).

Whenever a new element n is inserted into the map, do two things:

* See if n - 1 and n + 1 exist in the map, and if so, it means there is an existing sequence next to n. Variables left and right will be the length of those two sequences, while 0 means there is no sequence and n will be the boundary point later. Store (left + right + 1) as the associated value to key n into the map.
* Use left and right to locate the other end of the sequences to the left and right of n respectively, and replace the value with the new length.

Note that since only the two ends of each interval get updated everytime, therefore the value in the middle may not have the updated new length.

If mapper[num] indeed return a length of sequence, how can we know it is the sequence ends or starts here? We can just check whether ```num + 1``` and ```num - 1``` exists in the mapper or not.

And also note that we should avoid checking the duplicate numbers.

Here is an example:

```
[1,2,0,1]

step 1 :   [1,1]
step 2 :   [1,2], [2,2,]
step 3 :   [0,3], [1,2], [2,3]
step 4 :    must skip checking number 1 again, otherwise we will get a length with 3 + 1 + 3 = 7.

```

### Code

```java
class Solution {
    public int longestConsecutive(int[] nums) {
        HashMap<Integer, Integer> hashMap = new HashMap<Integer, Integer>();

        int maxLen = 0;
        for (int num : nums) {
            if (!hashMap.containsKey(num)) {
                int leftLen = hashMap.getOrDefault(num - 1, 0);
                int rightLen = hashMap.getOrDefault(num + 1, 0);
                int curLen = leftLen + 1 + rightLen;
                hashMap.put(num, curLen);
                
                // update boundary points of the sequence
                hashMap.put(num - leftLen, curLen);
                hashMap.put(num + rightLen, curLen);
                
                maxLen = Math.max(maxLen, curLen);
            }
        }

        return maxLen;
    }
}
```
