Given a non-empty string s and a dictionary wordDict containing a list of non-empty words, determine if s can be segmented into a space-separated sequence of one or more dictionary words.

Note:

* The same word in the dictionary may be reused multiple times in the segmentation.
* You may assume the dictionary does not contain duplicate words.

Example 1:

```
Input: s = "leetcode", wordDict = ["leet", "code"]
Output: true
```
Explanation: Return true because "leetcode" can be segmented as "leet code".


Example 2:

```
Input: s = "applepenapple", wordDict = ["apple", "pen"]
Output: true
```

Explanation: Return true because "applepenapple" can be segmented as "apple pen apple".
             Note that you are allowed to reuse a dictionary word.
           
Example 3:

```
Input: s = "catsandog", wordDict = ["cats", "dog", "sand", "and", "cat"]
Output: false
```

# Solution

Use dynamic programming here, by breaking down the original problem into sub-problems and solve subproblems just once and stores their solutions.

Not that although dynamic programming algorithms are often used for optimization, it does not mean it can be only used for optimization problems. This problem, for example, has nothing to do with optimization. 

```java
class Solution {
    public boolean wordBreak(String s, List<String> wordDict) {
        HashSet<String> dictionary = new HashSet<>();
        dictionary.addAll(wordDict);

        boolean[] isBreakable = new boolean[s.length() + 1];
        isBreakable[0] = true;

        for (int len = 1; len <= s.length(); ++len) {
            for (int preLen = 0; preLen < len; ++preLen) {
                if (isBreakable[preLen] && wordDict.contains(s.substring(preLen, len))) {
                    isBreakable[len] = true;
                    break;
                }
            }
        }

        return isBreakable[s.length()];
    }
}
```

# Knowledge

In computer science, mathematics, management science, economics and bioinformatics, __dynamic programming (also known as dynamic optimization) is a method for solving a complex problem by breaking it down into a collection of simpler subproblems, solving each of those subproblems just once, and storing their solutions__. The next time the same subproblem occurs, instead of recomputing its solution, one simply looks up the previously computed solution, thereby saving computation time at the expense of a (hopefully) modest expenditure in storage space. (Each of the subproblem solutions is indexed in some way, typically based on the values of its input parameters, so as to facilitate its lookup.) The technique of storing solutions to subproblems instead of recomputing them is called __"memoization"__.

__Dynamic programming algorithms are often used for optimization.__ A dynamic programming algorithm will examine the previously solved subproblems and will combine their solutions to give the best solution for the given problem. In comparison, a greedy algorithm treats the solution as some sequence of steps and picks the locally optimal choice at each step. Using a greedy algorithm does not guarantee an optimal solution, because picking locally optimal choices may result in a bad global solution, but it is often faster to calculate. Some greedy algorithms (such as Kruskal's or Prim's for minimum spanning trees) are however proven to lead to the optimal solution.
