Given a string, we can "shift" each of its letter to its successive letter, for example: "abc" -> "bcd". We can keep "shifting" which forms the sequence:

```
"abc" -> "bcd" -> ... -> "xyz"
```

Given a list of strings which contains only lowercase alphabets, group all strings that belong to the same shifting sequence.

For example, given: ["abc", "bcd", "acef", "xyz", "az", "ba", "a", "z"], 
Return:

```
[
  ["abc","bcd","xyz"],
  ["az","ba"],
  ["acef"],
  ["a","z"]
]
```

Note: For the return value, each inner list's elements must follow the lexicographic order.

# Solution

The key to this problem is how to identify strings that are in the same shifting sequence. There are different ways to encode this.

In the following code, this manner is adopted: for a string s of length n, we encode its shifting feature as "s[1] - s[0], s[2] - s[1], ..., s[n - 1] - s[n - 2],".

Then we build an unordered_map, using the above shifting feature string as key and strings that share the shifting feature as value. We store all the strings that share the same shifting feature in a vector. Well, remember to sort the vector since the problem requires them to be in lexicographic order :-)

A final note, since the problem statement has given that "az" and "ba" belong to the same shifting sequence. So if s[i] - s[i - 1] is negative, we need to add 26 to it to make it positive and give the correct result. We change the difference from numbers to lower-case alphabets using 'a' + diff.

```java
class Solution {

    public List<List<String>> groupStrings(String[] strings) {
        HashMap<String, List<String>> mapper = new HashMap<>();

        for (String str : strings) {
            String hash = getHash(str);
            if (!mapper.containsKey(hash)) {
                mapper.put(hash, new ArrayList<>());
            }
            mapper.get(hash).add(str);
        }

        mapper.forEach((k, v) -> Collections.sort(v));

        List<List<String>> result = new ArrayList<>(mapper.values());

        return result;
    }

    private String getHash(final String str) {
        StringBuilder stringBuilder = new StringBuilder();

        for (int i = 1; i < str.length(); ++i) {
            int diff = str.charAt(i) - str.charAt(i - 1);
            if (diff < 0) diff += 26;
            stringBuilder.append(diff + ',');
        }

        return stringBuilder.toString();
    }
}
```

# Knowledge

### Lexicographical order

In mathematics, the __lexicographic__ or __lexicographical order__ (also known as lexical order, __dictionary order__, alphabetical order or lexicographic(al) product) is a generalization of the way words are alphabetically ordered based on the alphabetical order of their component letters. This generalization consists primarily in defining a total order over the sequences (often called words in computer science) of elements of a finite totally ordered set, often called alphabet.

A string s precedes a string t in lexicographic order if

* s is a prefix of t, or
* if c and d are respectively the first character of s and t in which s and t differ, then c precedes d in character order.


Both C++ and Java support lexicographical order for their string class's "comparison method"

.
