Given an array of meeting time intervals consisting of start and end times [[s1,e1],[s2,e2],...] (si < ei), find the minimum number of conference rooms required.

For example,
```
Given [[0, 30],[5, 10],[15, 20]],
return 2.
```
# Solution

> A greedy algorithm is an algorithmic paradigm that follows the problem solving __heuristic__ of making the locally optimal choice at each stage with the hope of finding a __global optimum__. In many problems, a greedy strategy does not in general produce an optimal solution, but nonetheless a greedy heuristic may yield locally optimal solutions that approximate a global optimal solution in a reasonable time.

If you look at these events in a time line one after another (like stream data), then this solution is a greedy solution.

The heap stores all conflicting events, which must be resolved by independent rooms. The heap's head is the event that has earliest end/finish time. All other events collide with each other mutually in the heap.

When a new event comes (this is the reason that we need to sort by event.start), we greedily choose the event A that finished the earliest (this is the reason that we use minheap on end time). If the new event does not collide with A, then the new event can re-use A's room, or simply extend A's room to the new event's end time.

If the new event collides with A, then it must collide with all events in the heap. So a new room must be created.

The reason for correctness is the invariant: heap size is always the minimum number of rooms we need so far. If the new event collides with everyone, then a new room must be created; if the new event does not collide with someone, then it must not collide with the earliest finish one, so greedily choose that one and re-use that room. So the invariant is maintained.

__Time complexity O(NlogN)__.

```java
public int minMeetingRooms(Interval[] intervals) {

    Arrays.sort(intervals, Comparator.comparingInt(interval -> interval.start));

    PriorityQueue<Interval> minEndIntervals = new PriorityQueue<>(
        Comparator.comparingInt(interval -> interval.end)
    );

    int reval = 0;

    for (Interval interval : intervals) {
        if (minEndIntervals.isEmpty()) {
            minEndIntervals.add(interval);
            ++ reval;
        }  else {
             if (minEndIntervals.peek().end <= interval.start) {
                 minEndIntervals.peek().end = interval.end;
             } else {
                 ++ reval;
             }
        }
    }

    return reval;
}
```


