Given n nodes labeled from 0 to n - 1 and a list of undirected edges (each edge is a pair of nodes), write a function to check whether these edges make up a valid tree.

For example:

```
Given n = 5 and edges = [[0, 1], [0, 2], [0, 3], [1, 4]], return true.

Given n = 5 and edges = [[0, 1], [1, 2], [2, 3], [1, 3], [1, 4]], return false.
```

Hint:

Given n = 5 and edges = [[0, 1], [1, 2], [3, 4]], what should your return? Is this case a valid tree? Show More Hint 
Note: you can assume that no duplicate edges will appear in edges. Since all edges are undirected, [0, 1] is the same as [1, 0] and thus will not appear together in edges.


# Solution

To tell whether a graph is a valid tree, we have to:

1. Make sure there is no cycle in the graph - this has to be a none-cyclic graph;
2. Make sure every node is reached - this has to be a connected graph;

Reference: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tree_(graph_theory)

Solution:

1. To test cyclic, we can make an array for each node (as array index), and the array will store the parent of the node (as array index). Every time we fetch a new pair of nodes, we trace the root node (the deepest parent node) of these two nodes, if it has the same root, then is will be a cycle; otherwise, we set the parent of second node to be the first node;

2. After we make sure there is node cycle in the graph, we simple test if there is enough edges to make this graph connected.

Let's say the graph has V vertices and E edges, the find( ) function takes O(V) time because in the worst case it has to go through all the vertices, and from outside we loop through all the edges, so the time complexity should be O(V*E).

```java
class Solution {

    public boolean validTree(int n, int[][] edges) {
        if (edges.length != n - 1) return false;

        int[] union = new int[n];

        for (int i = 0; i < n; ++i) {
            union[i] = i;
        }

        for (int[] edge : edges) {
            int from = edge[0], to = edge[1];
            while (union[from] != from) from = union[from] = union[union[from]]; // path compression
            while (union[to] != to) to = union[to] = union[union[to]]; // path compression
            if (from == to) return false; // cycle exists!
            union[from] = union[to];
        }

        return true;
    }
}
```

# Notes

This problem can be solved with Union-Find, BFS and DFS.

For BFS and DFS we need to build the graph first, so using Union-Find is just simply easier.

And this also gives us an insight about when to use BFS/DFS or Union-Find.

If the graph is there, BFS/DFS might make code shorter, otherwise, Union-Find can be a good candidate.

Also, always try to perform path-compression when using Union-Find, it can improve performance.
