Given an array of citations (each citation is a non-negative integer) of a researcher, write a function to compute the researcher's h-index.

According to the definition of h-index on Wikipedia: "A scientist has index h if h of his/her N papers have at least h citations each, and the other N − h papers have no more than h citations each."

For example, given citations = [3, 0, 6, 1, 5], which means the researcher has 5 papers in total and each of them had received 3, 0, 6, 1, 5 citations respectively. Since the researcher has 3 papers with at least 3 citations each and the remaining two with no more than 3 citations each, his h-index is 3.

Note: If there are several possible values for h, the maximum one is taken as the h-index.

# Solution

Compare this with LeetCode 275, the only difference between these two problems is that in this problme, the citations array input is not sorted, while in LeetCode 275 it is. We can sort the input array and then handle it the same way as LeetCode 275, but that means we have to pay the cost of sorting algorithm which is `O(nlogn)` and it is higher than the time complexity of LeetCode 275 algorithm.

How can we do different here?

The idea is to see that the result can only range from 0 to the length of the array (because we can't have h-index greater than the total papers published).

We can borrow some idea from counting sort(note we are not actually using counting sort). Assume `n` is the total number of papers, if we have `n+1` buckets, number from 0 to `n`, then for any paper with reference corresponding to the index of the bucket, we increment the count for that bucket. The only exception is that for any paper with larger number of reference than `n`, we put in the n-th bucket.

Now, the bucket index represents the citation value, and the number in the bucket represents how many papers get that citation(except for the last bucket of course).

Then we iterate from the back to the front of the buckets, whenever the total count exceeds the index of the bucket, meaning that we have the index number of papers that have reference greater than or equal to the index. Which will be our h-index result. The reason to scan from the end of the array is that we are looking for the greatest h-index. For example, given array [3,0,6,5,1], we have 6 buckets to contain how many papers have the corresponding index. 


```java
class Solution {
    public int hIndex(int[] citations) {
        int n = citations.length;
        int[] citationCounter = new int[n + 1];

        for (int citation : citations) {
            if (citation > n) {
                ++ citationCounter[n];
            } else {
                ++ citationCounter[citation];
            }
        }
        
        for (int paperCount = 0, i = n; i >= 0; --i) {
            paperCount += citationCounter[i];
            if (paperCount >= i) return i;
        }
        
        return 0;
    }
}
```

We can actually improve a little bit based on above solution. It's true that we can't have h-index greater than the total papers published, but it is also true that we can't have h-index which is greater than the maximum citation value. Thus we can add a new contraint on the number of buckets we create: `int n = Math.min(maxCitation, citations.length);`

* If we only consider the total papers published: If the author published 2000 papers and the maximum citation value is only 2. We will need create 2000 buckets, but we actually only need 2 buckets.
* If we only consider the maximum citation value: If the author published 3 papers and the maximum citation value is 3000. We will need create 3000 buckets, but we actually only need 3 buckets.

Therefore, it's better to choose the minimum value of `total papers published` and `maximum citation value`.

```java
class Solution {
    public int hIndex(int[] citations) {
        int maxCitation = Arrays.stream(citations).max().orElse(0);

        int n = Math.min(maxCitation, citations.length);
        int[] citationCounter = new int[n + 1];

        for (int citation : citations) {
            if (citation > n) {
                ++ citationCounter[n];
            } else {
                ++ citationCounter[citation];
            }
        }

        for (int paperCount = 0, i = n; i >= 0; --i) {
            paperCount += citationCounter[i];
            if (paperCount >= i) return i;
        }

        return 0;
    }
}
```

__We should always think about how many buckets we need to create when we are trying to solve the problem similar to counting sort.__

https://www.quora.com/Why-cant-we-use-count-sort-as-a-general-purpose-sorting-algorithm

# Knowledge

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Counting_sort

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/H-index
