There is a fence with n posts, each post can be painted with one of the k colors.

You have to paint all the posts such that __no more than two adjacent fence posts have the same color__.

Return the total number of ways you can paint the fence.

Note:  
n and k are non-negative integers.


# Solution

The description of the problem is pretty dumb. Instead of saying "no more than two adjacent fence posts have the same color" which can have different meanings, it should say "no 3 adjacent posts should have the same color".

### Solution one

Now let's solve this problem.

If we know the number of ways we can paint until on i-th post, then we know the answer of the problem.

When paining on i-th post, we have two choices:

* Paint the same color as previous post
* Paint a different color from previous post

While you may say, isn't it 

```
num_of_ways[i] = num_of_ways[i-1]  // Same color
          + num_of_ways[i-1] * (k - 1) // Different color
```
?

This is obviously wrong. First of all, the number of ways to paint current post with the same color as previous post can't be represented as ```num_of_ways[i-1]``` which contains the case that  i - 2 and i - 1 posts painted the same color. We need to know the number of ways to paint i-1 post when i-1 post has a different color from i-2. We can use ```diff_color[i-1]``` to represent that.

Thus, we have 

```
same_color[i] : number of ways to paint i-th post when using the same color as previous post
diff_color[i] : number of ways to paint i-th post when using a different color from previous post
```

and we can have below equation.

``` 
// Paint the same color as i - 1  post
same_color[i] = diff_color[i - 1]; 

// Paint a different color from i - 1 post
diff_color[i] = (diff_color[i - 1] + same_color[i - 1]) * (k - 1); 
```            

__Time complexity O(N), space complexity O(N).__

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int numWays(int n, int k) {
        if (n <= 0 || k <= 0) return 0;
        vector<int> same_color(n, 0), diff_color(n, 0);
        diff_color[0] = k;
        for (int i = 1; i < n; ++i) {
            same_color[i] = diff_color[i - 1];
            diff_color[i] = (diff_color[i - 1] + same_color[i - 1]) * (k - 1);
        }
        return same_color.back() + diff_color.back();
    }
};
```

### Solution two

We can optimize above solution's space complexity to be O(1).

We divided it into two cases.

1. the last two posts have the same color, the number of ways to paint in this case is sameColorCounts.

2. the last two posts have different colors, and the number of ways in this case is diffColorCounts.

__The reason why we have these two cases is that we can easily compute both of them, and that is all I do.__ When adding a new post, we can use the same color as the last one (if allowed) or different color. If we use different color, there're k-1 options, and the outcomes shoule belong to the diffColorCounts category. If we use same color, there's only one option, and we can only do this when the last two have different colors (which is the diffColorCounts). There we have our induction step.

Here is an example, let's say we have 3 posts and 3 colors. The first two posts we have 9 ways to do them, (1,1), (1,2), (1,3), (2,1), (2,2), (2,3), (3,1), (3,2), (3,3). Now we know that ```diffColorCounts = 6;```, And ```sameColorCounts = 3;```.

Now for the third post, we can compute these two variables like this:

If we use different colors than the last one (the second one), these ways can be added into diffColorCounts, so if the last one is 3, we can use 1 or 2, if it's 1, we can use 2 or 3, etc. Apparently there are ```(diffColorCounts + sameColorCounts) * (k-1)``` possible ways.

If we use the same color as the last one, we would trigger a violation in these three cases (1,1,1), (2,2,2) and (3,3,3). This is because they already used the same color for the last two posts. So is there a count that rules out these kind of cases? YES, the diffColorCounts. So in cases within diffColorCounts, we can use the same color as the last one without worrying about triggering the violation. And now as we append a same-color post to them, the former diffColorCounts becomes the current sameColorCounts.

Then we can keep going until we reach the n. And finally just sum up these two variables as result.

__Time complexity O(N), space complexity O(1).__

```java
public int numWays(int n, int k) {
    if (n <= 0 || k <= 0) return 0;

    int same = 0, diff = k;
    for (int i = 2; i <= n; ++i) {
        int pre_same = same, pre_diff = diff;
        same = pre_same + pre_diff; // paint the same color as previous fence
        diff = (pre_same + pre_diff) * (k - 1); // paint a different color from previous fence
    }

    return same + diff;
}
```

# Knowledge

### How to solve a Dynamic Programming Problem ?

Dynamic Programming (DP) is a technique that solves some particular type of problems in Polynomial Time. Dynamic Programming solutions are faster than exponential brute method and can be easily proved for their correctness. Before we study how to think Dynamically for a problem, we need to learn:

* Overlapping Subproblems
* Optimal Substructure Property

```
Steps to solve a DP
1) Identify if it is a DP problem
2) Decide a state expression with 
   least parameters
3) Formulate state relationship    
4) Do tabulation (or add memoization)
```

#### Step 1 : How to classify a problem as a Dynamic Programming Problem?

* Typically, all the problems that require to maximize or minimize certain quantity or counting problems that say to count the arrangements under certain condition or certain probability problems can be solved by using Dynamic Programming.
* All dynamic programming problems satisfy the overlapping subproblems property and most of the classic dynamic problems also satisfy the optimal substructure property. Once, we observe these properties in a given problem, be sure that it can be solved using DP.

#### Step 2 : Deciding the state

DP problems are all about __state__ and their __transition__. This is the most basic step which must be done very carefully because the state transition depends on the choice of state definition you make. So, let’s see what do we mean by the term “state”.

__State__ : A state can be defined as the set of parameters that can uniquely identify a certain position or standing in the given problem. This set of parameters should be as small as possible to reduce state space.

For example: In our famous Knapsack problem, we define our state by two parameters index and weight i.e DP[index][weight]. Here DP[index][weight] tells us the maximum profit it can make by taking items from range 0 to index having the capacity of sack to be weight. Therefore, here the parameters index and weight together can uniquely identify a subproblem for the knapsack problem.

So, our first step will be deciding a state for the problem after identifying that the problem is a DP problem.

As we know DP is all about using calculated results to formulate the final result.
So, our next step will be to find a relation between previous states to reach the current state.


#### Step 3 : Formulating a relation among the states

This part is the hardest part of for solving a DP problem and requires a lots of intuition, observation and practice. Let’s understand it by considering a sample problem


Given 3 numbers {1, 3, 5}, we need to tell the total number of ways we can form a number 'N' using the sum of the given three numbers. (allowing repetitions and different arrangements).

```
Total number of ways to form 6 is : 8
1+1+1+1+1+1
1+1+1+3
1+1+3+1
1+3+1+1
3+1+1+1
3+3
1+5
5+1
```

Let’s think dynamically for this problem. So, first of all, we decide a state for the given problem. We will take a parameter n to decide state as it can uniquely identify any subproblem. So, our state dp will look like state(n). Here, state(n) means the total number of arrangements to form n by using {1, 3, 5} as elements.

Now, we need to compute state(n).

How to do it? 

So here the intuition comes into action. As we can only use 1, 3 or 5 to form a given number. Let us assume that we know the result for n = 1,2,3,4,5,6 ; being termilogistic let us say we know the result for the
state (n = 1), state (n = 2), state (n = 3) ……… state (n = 6)

Now, we wish to know the result of the state (n = 7). See, we can only add 1, 3 and 5. Now we can get a sum total of 7 by the following 3 ways:

1) Adding 1 to all possible combinations of state (n = 6)

```
Eg : [ (1+1+1+1+1+1) + 1]
[ (1+1+1+3) + 1]
[ (1+1+3+1) + 1]
[ (1+3+1+1) + 1]
[ (3+1+1+1) + 1]
[ (3+3) + 1]
[ (1+5) + 1]
[ (5+1) + 1]
```

2) Adding 3 to all possible combinations of state (n = 4);

```
Eg : [(1+1+1+1) + 3]
[(1+3) + 3]
[(3+1) + 3]
```

3) Adding 5 to all possible combinations of state(n = 2)

```
Eg : [ (1+1) + 5]
```

Now, think carefully and satisfy yourself that the above three cases are covering all possible ways to form a sum total of 7;

Therefore, we can say that result for
```
state(7) = state (6) + state (4) + state (2)
```
or
```
state(7) = state (7-1) + state (7-3) + state (7-5)
```

In general, ```state(n) = state(n-1) + state(n-3) + state(n-5)```.

So, our code will look like:

```cpp
// Returns the number of arrangements to 
// form 'n' 
int solve(int n)
{ 
   // base case
   if (n < 0) 
      return 0;
   if (n == 0)  
      return 1;  
 
   return solve(n-1) + solve(n-3) + solve(n-5);
}  
```

The above code seems exponential as it is calculating the same state again and again. So, we just need to add a memoization.

