Given a positive integer n, find the least number of perfect square numbers (for example, 1, 4, 9, 16, ...) which sum to n.

For example, given n = 12, return 3 because 12 = 4 + 4 + 4; given n = 13, return 2 because 13 = 4 + 9.


# Solution

We know that:

```
numSquares(0) = 0;
numSquares(1) = 1;
numSquares(2) = 2;
numSquares(3) = 3;   
numSquares(4) = 1;  // 2 * 2
numSquares(5) = 2; // 1 + numSquares(4)
....
```

Therefore, in order to get ```numSquares(n)```, we can choose the minimal value in: `{ 1 +  numSquares(n - i * i)}`.

At first, I was thinking that, can I get the minimal value in `{numSquares(i) + numSquares(n - i)}`, then I realize that this relationship doesn't use the square operation at all. Thus it doesn't work. 
  
```java 
class Solution {
    static final ArrayList<Integer> storedResult = new ArrayList<>(Arrays.asList(0, 1));
    public int numSquares(int n) {
        if (storedResult.size() <= n) {
            for (int i = storedResult.size(); i <= n; ++i) {
                int minValue = Integer.MAX_VALUE;
                for (int j = 1; j * j <= i; ++j) {
                    int curCount = 1 + storedResult.get(i - j * j);
                    minValue = Math.min(minValue, curCount);
                }
                storedResult.add(minValue);
            }
        }

        return storedResult.get(n);
    }
}
```

# Thinking

This problem is asking for "least number of xxx", which is requiring an optimal solution.
First of all, we need to check whether it has __optimal strucutre__, which means that whether an optimal solution can be constructed efficiently from optimal solutions of its __subproblems__. In other words, if we already know the answers for all numbers between `[0, n-1]`, can we get the answer for n based on the subproblems' answers?

In most cases, we can get an optimal solution by:
1. Greedy algorithm __only if__ it can be proved by induction that this is optimal at __each step__.
2. Dynamic programming, provided the problem exhibits __overlapping subproblems__.

If there are no appropriate greedy algorithms and the problem fails to exhibit overlapping subproblems, often a lengthy but straightforward search of the solution space is the best alternative.
 
> In computer science, a problem is said to have __overlapping subproblems__ if the problem can be broken down into subproblems which are reused several times or a recursive algorithm for the problem solves the same subproblem over and over rather than always generating new subproblems.

