According to the Wikipedia's article: "The Game of Life, also known simply as Life, is a cellular automaton devised by the British mathematician John Horton Conway in 1970."

Given a board with m by n cells, each cell has an initial state live (1) or dead (0). Each cell interacts with its eight neighbors (horizontal, vertical, diagonal) using the following four rules (taken from the above Wikipedia article):

* Any live cell with fewer than two live neighbors dies, as if caused by under-population.
* Any live cell with two or three live neighbors lives on to the next generation.
* Any live cell with more than three live neighbors dies, as if by over-population..
* Any dead cell with exactly three live neighbors becomes a live cell, as if by reproduction.

Write a function to compute the next state (after one update) of the board given its current state. The next state is created by applying the above rules simultaneously to every cell in the current state, where births and deaths occur simultaneously.

__Example:__

```
Input: 
[
  [0,1,0],
  [0,0,1],
  [1,1,1],
  [0,0,0]
]
Output: 
[
  [0,0,0],
  [1,0,1],
  [0,1,1],
  [0,1,0]
]
```

__Follow up:__
* Could you solve it in-place? Remember that the board needs to be updated at the same time: You cannot update some cells first and then use their updated values to update other cells.  
* In this question, we represent the board using a 2D array. In principle, the board is infinite, which would cause problems when the active area encroaches the border of the array. How would you address these problems?  

# Solution

Official solution : https://leetcode.com/problems/game-of-life/solution/  

It's obvious that the time complexity is `O(M×N)`.

Soltuion with Space complexity `O(M×N)` is very simple.

To solve it in place, we use 2 bits to store 2 states:

```
[2nd bit, 1st bit] = [next state, current state]

- 00  dead (next) <- dead (current)
- 01  dead (next) <- live (current)  
- 10  live (next) <- dead (current)  
- 11  live (next) <- live (current) 
```

In the beginning, every cell is either `00` or `01`.  
Notice that 1st state is independent of 2nd state.  
Imagine all cells are instantly changing from the 1st to the 2nd state, at the same time.  
Let's count # of neighbors from 1st state and set 2nd state bit.  
Since every 2nd state is by default dead, no need to consider transition `01 -> 00`.  
In the end, delete every cell's 1st state by doing `>> 1`.  

For each cell's 1st bit, check the 8 pixels around itself, and set the cell's 2nd bit.

* Transition `01 -> 11`: when board == 1 and lives >= 2 && lives <= 3.
* Transition `00 -> 10`: when board == 0 and lives == 3.

To get the current state, simply do `board[i][j] & 1`.  
To get the next state, simply do `board[i][j] >> 1`.  

```java
class Solution {

    private static int[][] MOVE = {
            {-1, -1}, {-1, 0}, {-1, 1},
            {0, -1},           {0, 1},
            {1, -1},  {1, 0}, {1, 1},
    };

    public void gameOfLife(int[][] board) {
        for (int i = 0; i < board.length; ++i) {
            for (int j = 0; j < board[0].length; ++j) {
                int liveNeighborCount = getLiveNeighborCount(board, i, j);
                if (liveNeighborCount == 3
                        || liveNeighborCount == 2 && (board[i][j] & 1) == 1) {
                    board[i][j] += 2;
                }
            }
        }


        for (int i = 0; i < board.length; ++i) {
            for (int j = 0; j < board[0].length; ++j) {
                board[i][j] >>= 1;
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Now, what if the board is infinite large?

For that scenario, we assume that the contents of the matrix are stored in a file, one row at a time. In order for us to update a particular cell, we only have to look at its 8 neighbors which essentially lie in the row above and below it. So, for updating the cells of a row, we just need the row above and the row below. Thus, we read one row at a time from the file and at max we will have 3 rows in memory. We will keep discarding rows that are processed and then we will keep reading new rows from the file, one at a time. 

Further more, we can also handle it in a parrallel way by divideing the board into multiple segments, and each segment is handled by one host. Note we need to handle the first row and last row of each segment at last.
