Given a non-empty string check if it can be constructed by taking a substring of it and appending multiple copies of the substring together. You may assume the given string consists of lowercase English letters only and its length will not exceed 10000.

 

__Example 1:__

```
Input: "abab"
Output: True
Explanation: It's the substring "ab" twice.
```

__Example 2:__

```
Input: "aba"
Output: False
```

__Example 3:__

```
Input: "abcabcabcabc"
Output: True
Explanation: It's the substring "abc" four times. (And the substring "abcabc" twice.)
```

# Solution

Consider a string `S="helloworld"`. Now, given another `string T="lloworldhe"`, can we figure out if T is a rotated version of S? Yes, we can! We check if S is a substring of T+T.

Fine. How do we apply that to this problem? We consider every rotation of string S such that it's rotated by k units `[k < len(S)]` to the left. Specifically, we're looking at strings `"elloworldh"`, `"lloworldhe"`, `"loworldhel"`, etc...

If we have a string that is periodic (i.e. is made up of strings that are the same and repeat R times), then we can check if the string is equal to some rotation of itself, and if it is, then we know that the string is periodic. Checking if `S` is a sub-string of `(S+S)[1:-1]` basically checks if the string is present in a rotation of itself for all values of R such that `0 < R < len(S)`.

Let me make a note for future reference.

If the string `S` has repeated block, it could be described in terms of pattern. `S = SpSp` (For example, S has two repeatable block at most).

If we repeat the string, then `SS=SpSpSpSp`.

Destroying first and the last pattern by removing each character, we generate a new `S2=SxSpSpSy`.

If the string has repeatable pattern inside, `S2` should have valid `S` in its string.

```java
class Solution {
    public boolean repeatedSubstringPattern(String s) {
        if (s == null || s.isEmpty()) return false;
        String str = s + s;
        String temp = str.substring(1, str.length() - 1); // substring [beginIndex, endIndex)
        return temp.contains(s);
    }
}
```
