Given an integer array of size n, find all elements that appear more than ⌊ n/3 ⌋ times. The algorithm should run in linear time and in O(1) space.

# Solution
  
You need to understand _Boyer–Moore majority vote algorithm_ in order to solve this problem with linear time complexity and constant space complexity.
  
The Boyer–Moore majority vote algorithm is an algorithm for finding the majority of a sequence of elements using linear time and constant space. In its simplest form, the algorithm finds a majority element, if there is one: that is, an element that occurs repeatedly for more than half of the elements of the input. _However, if there is no majority, the algorithm will not detect that fact, and will still output one of the elements. A version of the algorithm that makes a second pass through the data can be used to verify that the element found in the first pass really is a majority._

This problem, however, asks us to find "all elements that appear more than ⌊ n/3 ⌋ times", which is basically a variant of the general majority element problem.
  
1. there are no elements that appears more than n/3 times, then whatever the algorithm got from 1st round wound be rejected in the second round.  
2. there are only one elements that appears more than n/3 times, after 1st round one of the candicate must be that appears more than n/3 times(<2n/3 other elements could only pair out for <n/3 times), the other candicate is not necessarily be the second most frequent but it would be rejected in 2nd round.  
3. there are two elments appears more than n/3 times, candicates would contain both of them. (<n/3 other elements couldn't pair out any of the majorities.
                                                                                              
##### Edge cases

```
[0,0,0]
[0]
[0,0]
```
                                                                                              
  
```cpp  
class Solution {
public:
    vector<int> majorityElement(vector<int>& nums) {
        if (nums.size() < 2) return nums;
        
        // Here we initialize candidates to be 0,
        // which won't matter if there are 0 in nums since
        // the counters are initialized with 0 too.
        int candidate_one(0), candidate_two(0);
        int counter_one(0), counter_two(0);
        
        // When both counters dropped to 0, we should only
        // change one candidate's value, otherwise both candidates will
        // refer to the same number.
        for (int i = 0, n = nums.size(); i < n; ++i) {
            if (nums[i] == candidate_one) {
                ++ counter_one;
            } else if (nums[i] == candidate_two) {
                ++ counter_two;
            } else if (counter_one == 0) {
                candidate_one = nums[i];
                counter_one = 1;
            } else if (counter_two == 0) {
                candidate_two = nums[i];
                counter_two = 1;
            } else {
                -- counter_one;
                -- counter_two;
            }
        }
        // Right now we have two candidates, but we need to make sure
        // they do appear more than ⌊ n/3 ⌋ times.
        counter_one = counter_two = 0;
        for (int num : nums) {
            if (num == candidate_one) {
                ++ counter_one;
            } else if (num == candidate_two) {
                ++ counter_two;
            }
        }
        
        vector<int> reval;
        if (counter_one > nums.size() / 3)  reval.emplace_back(candidate_one);
        if (counter_two > nums.size() / 3)  reval.emplace_back(candidate_two);
        return reval;
    }
};
```
