Write a function to delete a node (except the tail) in a singly linked list, given only access to that node.

Supposed the linked list is 1 -> 2 -> 3 -> 4 and you are given the third node with value 3, the linked list should become 1 -> 2 -> 4 after calling your function.

# Solution

Though this is a pretty dumb question, but it still have something you need to deliberate.

First of all, whenever we are asked to delete a node from a linklist, we need to know is its memory dynamically allocated or not?

It is possible that the list is on th heap memory, or on the stack memory. We need clarification from interviewer.

If it is allocated on heap memory, we need to free the memory to avoid memory leak, and we also need to avoid dangling pointers as well.

Some corder cases:

1. The pointer of input node is nullptr.  
2. The list only have one node.  

Some people may try to twist the original list into a circle list and then use pre and next pointer to delete the node. It works but it will be complicate, especially when the list only have one node, and you will make the node point to itself.

```cpp
/**
 * Definition for singly-linked list.
 * struct ListNode {
 *     int val;
 *     ListNode *next;
 *     ListNode(int x) : val(x), next(NULL) {}
 * };
 */
class Solution {
public:
    void deleteNode(ListNode* node) {
        if (node) {
            ListNode *next_node = node->next;
            if (next_node) {
                node->val = next_node->val;
                node->next = next_node->next;
                
                // If memory if it is dynamically allocated.
                // You need clarification from interviewer.
                delete next_node;
                next_node = nullptr;
            } else {
                delete node;
                node = nullptr;
            }
        }
    }
};
``
