Given a string of numbers and operators, return all possible results from computing all the different possible ways to group numbers and operators. The valid operators are +, - and *.


##### Example 1

```  
Input: "2-1-1".

((2-1)-1) = 0
(2-(1-1)) = 2
Output: [0, 2]
```

##### Example 2

```
Input: "2*3-4*5"

(2*(3-(4*5))) = -34
((2*3)-(4*5)) = -14
((2*(3-4))*5) = -10
(2*((3-4)*5)) = -10
(((2*3)-4)*5) = 10
Output: [-34, -14, -10, -10, 10]
```

# Solution

If we are trying to add parenthesis first and then do the calculation, it will be very complicate.
  
Instead, we can break the input string int to left part and right part on any operators. By that, we basically added a parenthesis on left part and a parenthesis on right part. Therefore, we can solve this solution with top-down divide and conquer algorithm design paradigm.

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
  vector<int> diffWaysToCompute(string input) {
    vector<int> res;
    for(int i=0;i<input.size();++i){
      if( std::ispunct(input[i]) ) {
        // get results from left and right part
        vector<int> lvalues = diffWaysToCompute(input.substr(0,i));
        vector<int> rvalues = diffWaysToCompute(input.substr(i+1));
        // calculation
        const char op = input[i];
        for (int l : lvalues) {
          for (int r : rvalues) {
            if (op == '+') {
              res.push_back(l+r);
            }  else if ( op =='-') {
              res.push_back(l-r);
            } else {
              res.push_back(l*r);
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
    // if res is empty so far, then it means this string is a number.
    return res.empty() ? vector<int>(1,std::stoi(input)) : res;
  }
};
```

We can use memoization to improve performance too.

```cpp
class Solution {

public:
    vector<int> diffWaysToCompute(string input) {
        static std::unordered_map<std::string, vector<int>> memoization;
        if (memoization.count(input) != 0) {
            return memoization[input];
        }
        vector<int> reval;
        bool is_input_a_number(true);
        for (std::size_t i = 0, n = input.size(); i < n; ++i) {
            if (!std::isdigit(input[i])) {
                is_input_a_number = false;
                const std::string left_str(input.substr(0, i)), right_str(input.substr(i + 1));
                const vector<int> &left_results = diffWaysToCompute(left_str);
                const vector<int> &right_results = diffWaysToCompute(right_str);
                for (int l : left_results) {
                    for (int r : right_results) {
                        if (input[i] == '+') {
                            reval.emplace_back(l + r);
                        } else if (input[i] == '-') {
                            reval.emplace_back(l - r);
                        } else { // '*'
                            reval.emplace_back(l * r);
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
        }
        if (is_input_a_number) {
            reval.emplace_back(std::stoi(input));
        }
        memoization[input] = reval;
        return reval;
    }
};
```

# Knowledge

### What is difference between memoization and dynamic programming?

__Memoization__ is a term describing an optimization technique where you cache previously computed results, and return the cached result when the same computation is needed again.

__Dynamic programming__ is a technique for solving problems recursively and is applicable when the computations of the subproblems overlap.

Dynamic programming is typically implemented using __tabulation__, but can also be implemented using memoization. So as you can see, neither one is a "subset" of the other.

A reasonable follow-up question is: What is the difference between tabulation (the typical dynamic programming technique) and memoization?

When you solve a dynamic programming problem using tabulation you solve the problem "bottom up", i.e., by solving all related sub-problems first, typically by filling up an n-dimensional table. Based on the results in the table, the solution to the "top" / original problem is then computed.

If you use memoization to solve the problem you do it by maintaining a map of already solved sub problems. You do it "top down" in the sense that you solve the "top" problem first (which typically recurses down to solve the sub-problems).

  
When should we use top-down or bottom-up dynamic-programming > If all subproblems must be solved at least once, a bottom-up dynamic-programming algorithm usually outperforms a top-down memoized algorithm by a constant factor. No overhead for recursion and less overhead for maintaining table There are some problems for which the regular pattern of table accesses in the dynamic-programming algorithm can be exploited to reduce the time or space requirements even further. If some subproblems in the subproblem space need not be solved at all, the memoized solution has the advantage of solving only those subproblems that are definitely required.
  
###  What is the difference between dynamic programming and divide and conquer?
  
Divide and Conquer basically works in three steps.

1. Divide - It first divides the problem into small chunks or sub-problems.  
2. Conquer - It then solve those sub-problems recursively so as to obtain a separate result for each sub-problem.  
3. Combine - It then combine the results of those sub-problems to arrive at a final result of the main problem.  

Some Divide and Conquer algorithms are Merge Sort, Binary Sort, etc.

Dynamic Programming is similar to Divide and Conquer when it comes to dividing a large problem into sub-problems. But here, each sub-problem is solved only once. There is no recursion. The key in dynamic programming is remembering. That is why we store the result of sub-problems in a table so that we don't have to compute the result of a same sub-problem again and again.

Some algorithms that are solved using Dynamic Programming are Matrix Chain Multiplication, Tower of Hanoi puzzle, etc..

Another difference between Dynamic Programming and Divide and Conquer approach is that : __In Divide and Conquer, the sub-problems are independent of each other while in case of Dynamic Programming, the sub-problems are not independent of each other (Solution of one sub-problem may be required to solve another sub-problem).__
