Numbers can be regarded as product of its factors. For example,

```
8 = 2 x 2 x 2;
  = 2 x 4.
```

Write a function that takes an integer n and return all possible combinations of its factors.

##### Note:

* You may assume that n is always positive.
* Factors should be greater than 1 and less than n.
Examples:

```
input: 1
output: 
[]
```

```
input: 37
output: 
[]
```

```
input: 12
output:
[
  [2, 6],
  [2, 2, 3],
  [3, 4]
]
```

```
input: 32
output:
[
  [2, 16],
  [2, 2, 8],
  [2, 2, 2, 4],
  [2, 2, 2, 2, 2],
  [2, 4, 4],
  [4, 8]
]
```

# Solution

At first, I was trying to break a number into left and right parts, and eventually combine two parts together.

For example, f(12) = f(2) # f(6), f(3) # f(4).

However, this will result duplicates, for example, f(2) # f(6) will generate [2,2,3], and f(3) # f(4) will generate [3,2,2].

We will need hashset to do de-duplication.

However, there is an alternative.

Basically, this problem is asking to return all the valid __combinations__ (not permutation) for an integer.

The word __combination__ here should give you hint, we probably can solve this problem with backtracking.

For any n, if we can find a number t which makes n % t == 0, then we can push t into the temporary vector we are building, and keep searching for combinations of n / t. This can form a search tree. For example, for number 12, we know it is multiple of 2, 3, 4, 6, so we can divide 12 with these numbers and go to children nodes. If we treat these numbers, 2,3,4,6 as the weight of the edge from current node to its child, then we will find that for any node, it is a product of any of its children plus the edges to reach that child.

You should draw the tree to understand it better.

```
12  => 6 by dividing 2,  here the edge weight is 2, the child node is 6,   2 * 6 == 12
12  => 4 by dividing 3,  here the edge weight is 3, the child node is 4,   3 * 4 == 12
12  => 3 by dividing 4,  here the edge weight is 4, the child node is 3,   4 * 3 == 12
12  => 2 by dividing 6,  here the edge weight is 6, the child node is 2,   6 * 2 == 12
```

Note here we need to prune the search tree to avoid duplicates.

How?  We find out, as long as the elements in each combination is in increasing order then we should not have duplicates.

Againg, since we know that for any tree node here, it is a product of the paths to any of its children node, all we need to do here is to make sure that the edges on the paths as well as the child node is not decreasing order.

In the below solution, we make sure at any node with value n, we only visit its children node whose value is not less than sqrt(n).

And we also use start to make sure that the edge to its child should not be less than any previous edge on this path.



```cpp
class Solution {
private:
    void helper(vector<vector<int>> &result, 
                vector<int> &temp, 
                int n, 
                int start){
        // Here we are stading at a tree node whose value is n,
        // now we are going to its children nodes.
        for (int i = start; i <= std::sqrt(n); ++i) {
            if (n % i == 0) {
                vector<int> new_temp = temp;
                new_temp.emplace_back(i);
                helper(result, new_temp, n / i, i);
                new_temp.emplace_back(n / i);
                result.emplace_back(new_temp);
            }
        }
    }
public:
    vector<vector<int>> getFactors(int n) {
        vector<vector<int>> reval;
        vector<int> temp;
        helper(reval, temp, n, 2);
        return reval;
    }
    
};
```

# Knowledge

### Backtracking

Backtracking is a general algorithm for finding all (or some) solutions to some computational problems, notably constraint satisfaction problems, that incrementally builds candidates to the solutions, and abandons each __partial candidate__ ("backtracks") as soon as it determines that the candidate cannot possibly be completed to a valid solution.

_Backtracking can be applied only for problems which admit the concept of a "partial candidate solution" and a relatively quick test of whether it can possibly be completed to a valid solution._ It is useless, for example, for locating a given value in an unordered table. When it is applicable, however, backtracking is often much faster than brute force enumeration of all complete candidates, since it can eliminate a large number of candidates with a single test.
                                                                                         
The backtracking algorithm enumerates a set of __partial candidates__ that, in principle, could be completed in various ways to give all the possible solutions to the given problem. The completion is done incrementally, by a sequence of candidate extension steps.
Conceptually, the partial candidates are represented as the nodes of a tree structure, the __potential search tree__. Each partial candidate is the parent of the candidates that differ from it by a single extension step; the leaves of the tree are the partial candidates that cannot be extended any further.
                                                                                         
The backtracking algorithm traverses this search tree recursively, from the root down, in _depth-first order_. At each node c, the algorithm checks whether c can be completed to a valid solution. _If it cannot, the whole sub-tree rooted at c is __skipped (pruned)__._ Otherwise, the algorithm (1) checks whether c itself is a valid solution, and if so reports it to the user; and (2) recursively enumerates all sub-trees of c. The two tests and the children of each node are defined by user-given procedures.
                                                                                         
Therefore, the actual search tree that is traversed by the algorithm is only a part of the potential tree. __The total cost of the algorithm is the number of nodes of the actual tree times the cost of obtaining and processing each node.__ This fact should be considered when choosing the potential search tree and implementing the pruning test.                                                                                         
       
