Given an array of numbers, verify whether it is the correct preorder traversal sequence of a binary search tree.

You may assume each number in the sequence is unique.

__Follow up__:

Could you do it using only constant space complexity?

# Solution

For any in-order/pre-order/post-order vector, we can build multiple binary search tree.

A binary search tree will not be uniquely defined by just anyone of them, but it could be unique if we give both in-order and pre-order, or both in-order and post-order.

Thinking about the recursive way of in-order/pre-order/post-order, there is not much difference regarding to the call stack. The only difference is when we print out current node. 


Now let's think about this problem. 

What can a pre-order vector of a BST tell us? It can  tell us whether we are visiting left tree of a node or right tree of a node. For a number, if the next number is smaller, then we are going to visit its left tree; if the next number is bigger, then we are going to visit its right tree.  And also, parent always come before its children.



### Solution 1

THOUGHT: We first look at the property of preorder traversal: we print left child’s value of current node all the way until we reached a leaf node (you will see numbers decreasing), then we start printing the value of a node (let it be rc) which is the right child of one of the nodes (let it be node p) we already traversed. When do you know it’s a right child node’s value? It’s when you see a value greater than the last one. Also,till here we know, all the nodes in p’s left subtree have been read in the serialized array, and this property is maintained:

```
left subtree ‘s value < p ’s value < rc’s value
```

Since all the nodes whose value is smaller than p are already read, all the nodes’ value to be read after should have greater value than p’s value, so p’s value becomes the lower bound for any upcoming node.

```
p ’s value < upcoming value in array
```

Otherwise, it’s not valid. So the key here is to find the lower bound for upcoming nodes, which equals to find p.

To translate this into code: looking for the trend of numbers, if it’s decreasing, it’s still traversing the left child node all the way down, we push the value into stack. When we read a value greater than the last one, we know the current value belongs to a right node (let it be rc: right child) of one of the previous nodes (let it be p) we pushed to stack, in other words, p is a parent node of the current node rc. Due to the property of preorder traversal, p’s value is pushed to stack before its left subtree nodes, so to find the parent node, we pop all the nodes in its left subtree, and the last popped node whose value is smaller than rc is rc’s parent p, whose value becomes the lower bound. Then we keep reading the serialized array, in any case we see any value not greater than the lower bound, we return false. Lower bound is updated whenever we read a right child node’s value.

__Time complexity O(number of nodes), space complexity O(height of the tree).__

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    bool verifyPreorder(vector<int>& preorder) {
        if (preorder.empty()) return true;
        std::stack<int> nodes;
        int low(INT_MIN);
        for (int val : preorder) {
            if (low > val) {
                return false;
            }
            while (!nodes.empty() && nodes.top() < val) {
                low =  nodes.top();
                nodes.pop();
            } 
            nodes.push(val);
        }
        return true;
    }
};
```

### Solution 2

This solution basically used the same methology as above solution. You can imagine a virtual stack to help you understand it better.

For any number in the pre-order vector, if we traverse all smaller numbers backward from that number, those smaller numbers are basically the numbers will be popped out from the stack in above solution. 

__Time complexity O(number of nodes), space complexity O(height of the tree).__

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    bool verifyPreorder(vector<int>& preorder) {
        if (preorder.empty()) return true;
        std::stack<int> nodes;
        int low(INT_MIN);
        for (int i = 0, n = preorder.size(); i < n; ++i) {
            if (low > preorder[i]) return false;
            
            // If we are using a stack, these smaller numbers will be popped out.
            for (int j = i - 1; j >= 0 && preorder[j] < preorder[i]; --j) {
                low = std::max(low, preorder[j]);
            }
        }
        return true;
    }
};
```
