Given an array nums containing n + 1 integers where each integer is between 1 and n (inclusive), prove that at least one duplicate number must exist. Assume that there is only one duplicate number, find the duplicate one.

#### Note:

1. You must not modify the array (assume the array is read only).
2. You must use only constant, O(1) extra space.
3. Your runtime complexity should be less than O(n2).
4. There is only one duplicate number in the array, but it could be repeated more than once.
  
  
# Solution

Note that you can't use the same solution as 268. Missing Number. Becuase here the duplicate number can be repeated more than once.

We know that there are ```n + 1``` integers where each integer is within ```[1, n]```. If we treat each integer as a graph node and ```nums[i]``` means an edge from ```i``` to ```nums[i]```, this basically means that the graph have ```n``` nodes and ```n+1``` edges pointing to these nodes. Therefore, the graph has a cycle.

If we graph the array out,treated it as a graph representation, then the duplciate value should have indegree >=2 since there are at least two values point to it.Since there is only one duplicate number, very other node's indegree is 1. Therefore, the duplicate value  is the entry point. Notice that index = 0 is a special case.

The main idea is the same with problem Linked List Cycle II,https://leetcode.com/problems/linked-list-cycle-ii/. Use two pointers the fast and the slow. The fast one goes forward two steps each time, while the slow one goes only step each time. They must meet the same item when ```slow==fast```. In fact, they meet in a circle, the duplicate number must be the entry point of the circle when visiting the array from ```nums[0]```. Next we just need to find the entry point. We use a point(we can use the fast one before) to visit form begining with one step each time, do the same job to slow. When ```fast == slow```, they meet at the entry point of the circle. The easy understood code is as follows.  

Now let's prove again that after ```slow``` and ```fast``` meet, we reset ```slow``` to previous begin point, and make ```slow``` and ```fast``` move forward until them meet, and the meeting point is the duplicate number.

Let's use  ```L1``` represents the distance from starting point to the entrance of cycle, ```L2``` represents the distance from the entrance of cycle to meeting point(which is also within the cycle). ```N``` represents the cycle length.

We can begin at any valid number, when ```slow``` and ```fast``` meet, here are the distance they travelled:

* For ```slow```, ```steps = L1 + L2```  
* For ```fast```, ``` 2 * steps = L1 + l2 + N```

Therefore, we have ```2 * steps = 2 * L1 + 2 * L2```, and ```2 * steps = L1 + l2 + N```, so we know that ```N = L1 + L2```.

You may ask, why do we know that ```slow``` won't finish even once cycle length? This is because even when ```slow``` and ```fast``` begin at the entrance of the cycle at the same time, when ```slow``` just complete one ```cycle```, ```fast``` has travelled two cycles, and all other cases, ```fast``` enter the cycle before ```slow```. So we know that ```slow``` can complete at most one cycle.

  
```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int findDuplicate(vector<int>& nums) {
        int slow(nums[0]), fast(nums[0]);
        do {
            slow = nums[slow];
            fast = nums[nums[fast]];
        } while (slow != fast);
        
        slow = nums[0];
        while (slow != fast) {
            slow = nums[slow];
            fast = nums[fast];
        }
        
        return slow;
    }
};
```
