Given an array nums, we call (i, j) an important reverse pair if i < j and nums[i] > 2*nums[j].

You need to return the number of important reverse pairs in the given array.

#### Example1:

```
Input: [1,3,2,3,1]
Output: 2
```

#### Example2:

```
Input: [2,4,3,5,1]
Output: 3
```

#### Note:

* The length of the given array will not exceed 50,000.
* All the numbers in the input array are in the range of 32-bit integer.

# Solution

https://leetcode.com/problems/reverse-pairs/discuss/97268/General-principles-behind-problems-similar-to-%22Reverse-Pairs%22

It looks like a host of solutions are out there (BST-based, BIT-based, Merge-sort-based). Here I’d like to focus on the general principles behind these solutions and its possible application to a number of similar problems.

The fundamental idea is very simple: break down the array and solve for the subproblems.

A breakdown of an array naturally reminds us of subarrays. To smoothen our following discussion, let’s assume the input array is nums, with a total of n elements. Let ```nums[i, j]``` denote the subarray starting from index i to index j (both inclusive), ```T(i, j)``` as the same problem applied to this subarray (for example, for Reverse Pairs, ```T(i, j)``` will represent the total number of important reverse pairs for subarray ```nums[i, j]```).

With the definition above, it’s straightforward to identify our original problem as ```T(0, n - 1)```. Now the key point is how to construct solutions to the original problem from its subproblems. This is essentially equivalent to building recurrence relations for ```T(i, j)```. Since if we can find solutions to ```T(i, j)``` from its subproblems, we surely can build solutions to larger subarrays until eventually the whole array is spanned.

While there may be many ways for establishing recurrence relations for ```T(i, j)```, here I will only introduce the following two common ones:

```T(i, j) = T(i, j - 1) + C```, i.e., elements will be processed sequentially and C denotes the subproblem for processing the last element of subarray nums[i, j]. We will call this sequential recurrence relation.

```T(i, j) = T(i, m) + T(m + 1, j) + C``` where ```m = (i+j)/2```, i.e., subarray ```nums[i, j]``` will be further partitioned into two parts and C denotes the subproblem for combining the two parts. We will call this partition recurrence relation.

For either case, the nature of the subproblem C will depend on the problem under consideration, and it will determine the overall time complexity of the original problem. So usually it’s crucial to find efficient algorithm for solving this subproblem in order to have better time performance. Also pay attention to possibilities of overlapping subproblems, in which case a dynamic programming (DP) approach would be preferred.

Next, I will apply these two recurrence relations to this problem “Reverse Pairs” and list some solutions for your reference.

### I -- Sequential recurrence relation

Again we assume the input array is nums with n elements and T(i, j) denotes the total number of important reverse pairs for subarray nums[i, j]. For sequential recurrence relation, we can set i = 0, i.e., the subarray always starts from the beginning. Therefore we end up with:

```
T(0, j) = T(0, j - 1) + C
```

where the subproblem C now becomes "find the number of important reverse pairs with the first element of the pair coming from subarray nums[0, j - 1] while the second element of the pair being nums[j]".

Note that for a pair (p, q) to be an important reverse pair, it has to satisfy the following two conditions:

* p < q: the first element must come before the second element;
* nums[p] > 2 * nums[q]: the first element has to be greater than twice of the second element.

For subproblem C, the first condition is met automatically; so we only need to consider the second condition, which is equivalent to searching for all elements within subarray nums[0, j - 1] that are greater than twice of nums[j].

The straightforward way of searching would be a linear scan of the subarray, which runs at the order of O(j). From the sequential recurrence relation, this leads to the naive O(n^2) solution.

To improve the searching efficiency, a key observation is that the order of elements in the subarray does not matter, since we are only interested in the total number of important reverse pairs. This suggests we may sort those elements and do a binary search instead of a plain linear scan.

If the searching space (formed by elements over which the search will be done) is "static" (it does not vary from run to run), placing the elements into an array would be perfect for us to do the binary search. However, this is not the case here. After the j-th element is processed, we need to add it to the searching space so that it becomes searchable for later elements, which renders the searching space expanding as more and more elements are processed.

Therefore we’d like to strike a balance between searching and insertion operations. This is where data structures like binary search tree (BST) or binary indexed tree (BIT) prevail, which offers relatively fast performance for both operations.

### 1. BST-based solution

```cpp
class Solution {
private:
    struct BstNode;
    typedef BstNode* BstNodePtr;
    struct BstNode {
        BstNode(int val) : m_val(val), m_count(1), m_left(nullptr), m_right(nullptr){
            
        }
        ~BstNode() {
            delete m_left;
            delete m_right;
        }
        long long m_val;
        BstNodePtr m_left, m_right;
        // stores the number of children including itself 
        // not less than m_val 
        int m_count; 
    };
    void insert(BstNodePtr &node, int val) {
        if (!node) {
            node = new BstNode(val);
        } else {
            if (node->m_val == val) {
                ++ node->m_count;
            } else if (node->m_val > val) {
                insert(node->m_left, val);
            } else { // node->m_val < val
                ++ node->m_count;
                insert(node->m_right, val);
            }
        }
    }
    int getNotLessCount(BstNodePtr &node, long long val) {
        if (!node) {
            return 0;
        } else {
            if (node->m_val == val) {
               return node->m_count;
            } else if (node->m_val > val) {
                return node->m_count + getNotLessCount(node->m_left, val);
            } else { // node->m_val < val
                return getNotLessCount(node->m_right, val);
            }
        }
    }
public:
    int reversePairs(vector<int>& nums) {
        int reval(0);
        BstNodePtr root(nullptr);
        for (int num : nums) {
            reval +=  getNotLessCount(root, 2 * (long long)num + 1);
            insert(root, num);
        }
        return reval;
    }
};
```

And finally the main program, in which we will search for all elements no less than twice of current element plus 1 (converted to long type to avoid overflow) while insert the element itself into the BST.

Note: _this homemade BST is not self-balanced and the time complexity can go as bad as O(n^2)_ (in fact you will get TLE if you copy and paste the solution here). To guarantee O(nlogn) performance, use one of the self-balanced BST’s (e.g. Red-black tree, AVL tree, etc.).


### 2. BIT-based solution

Here our binary-indexed-tree stores the count of numbers not less than itself.

And the main program, where again we will search for all elements greater than twice of current element while insert the element itself into the BIT. For each element, the "index" function will return its index in the BIT. __Unlike the BST-based solution, this is guaranteed to run at O(nlogn).__

```cpp
class Solution {
private:
    int search(vector<int> & bit, int i) {
        int reval(0);
        
        while (i < bit.size()) {
            reval += bit[i];
            i += i & (-i);
        }
        
        return reval;
    }
    
    void insert(vector<int> & bit, int i) {
        while (i > 0) {
            ++ bit[i];
            i -= i & (-i);
        }
    }
    
    int index(vector<int> &sorted_nums, long long val) {
        int left = 0, right = sorted_nums.size() - 1, mid = 0;

        while (left <= right) {
            mid = left + ((right - left) >> 1);

            if (sorted_nums[mid] >= val) {
                right = mid - 1;
            } else {
                left = mid + 1;
            }
        }

        return left + 1;
    }

public:
    int reversePairs(vector<int>& nums) {
        vector<int> sorted_nums(nums);
        std::sort(sorted_nums.begin(), sorted_nums.end());
        vector<int> bit(nums.size() + 1, 0);
        
        int reval(0);
        for (int num : nums) {
            reval += search(bit, index(sorted_nums, 2L * num + 1));
            insert(bit, index(sorted_nums, num));
        }
        return reval;
    }
};
```

More explanation for the BIT-based solution:

* We want the elements to be sorted so there is a sorted version of the input array which is ```sorted_nums```.
* The ```bit``` is built upon this sorted array. Its length is one greater than that of the ```sorted_nums``` to account for the root.
* Initially the ```bit``` is empty and we start doing a sequential scan of the input array. For each element being scanned, we first search the ```bit``` to find all elements greater than twice of it and add the result to res. We then insert the element itself into the bit for future search.
* Note that conventionally searching of the bit involves traversing towards the root from some index of the bit, which will yield a predefined running total of the copy array up to the corresponding index. For insertion, the traversing direction will be opposite and go from some index towards the end of the bit array.
* For each scanned element of the input array, its searching index will be given by the index of the first element in the copy array that is greater than twice of it (shifted up by 1 to account for the root), while its insertion index will be the index of the first element in the sorted array that is no less than itself (again shifted up by 1). This is what the index function is for.
* __For our case, the running total is simply the number of elements encountered during the traversal process. If we stick to the convention above, the running total will be the number of elements smaller than the one at the given index, since the copy array is sorted in ascending order. However, we’d actually like to find the number of elements greater than some value (i.e., twice of the element being scanned), therefore we need to flip the convention. This is what you see inside the search and insert functions: the former traversing towards the end of the bit while the latter towards the root.__ Of course you can sort the numbers in reverse order and respect the convention of BIT.
