You are given n pairs of numbers. In every pair, the first number is always smaller than the second number.

Now, we define a pair (c, d) can follow another pair (a, b) if and only if b < c. Chain of pairs can be formed in this fashion.

Given a set of pairs, find the length longest chain which can be formed. You needn't use up all the given pairs. You can select pairs in any order.

#### Example 1:

```
Input: [[1,2], [2,3], [3,4]]
Output: 2
```

Explanation: The longest chain is [1,2] -> [3,4]

#### Note:

The number of given pairs will be in the range [1, 1000].

# Solution

The idea is simple.

1. Sort the pairs by their end in increasing order;
2. At any point, choose the pair that start after the tail end, then use it as the new end.

The solution uses greedy algorithm.

However, we know that __greedy algorithm doesn't always produce an optimal solution__.

Therefore, we need prove that this solution indeed yield the optimal result.

Let's begin.

At first, we choose the first pair that ends earliest. Is it possible that this pair is not included in the optimal result? The answer is no. Since all the pairs after it has a bigger end value, if any of them is the first item of the potimal result, it can be replaced by our current first pair.

After we choose the first item, for the rest pairs, we can only select from thoses pairs whose first number is bigger than current end. Then basically, we have a exact same problem just with smaller size.


```cpp
class Solution {
private:
    struct Compare{
      bool operator()(const vector<int> &left, 
                      const vector<int> &right) {
          // Here we can remove "left[1] == right[1] && left[0] < right[0]"
          // since it won't affect the result.
          return left[1] < right[1] || left[1] == right[1] && left[0] < right[0];
      }
    };
public:
    int findLongestChain(vector<vector<int>>& pairs) {
        std::sort(pairs.begin(), pairs.end(), Compare());
        
        int pre_end(INT_MIN), count(0);
        for (const vector<int> & pair : pairs) {
            if (pair[0] > pre_end) {
                pre_end = std::max(pre_end, pair[1]);
                ++ count;
            }
        }
        
        return count;
    }
};
```

Let's use lambda instead of functor here.

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int findLongestChain(vector<vector<int>>& pairs) {
        std::sort(pairs.begin(), pairs.end(), 
                  [](const vector<int> &left, const vector<int> &right) {
          return left[1] < right[1] || left[1] == right[1] && left[0] < right[0];
        });
        
        int pre_end(INT_MIN), count(0);
        for (const vector<int> & pair : pairs) {
            if (pair[0] > pre_end) {
                pre_end = std::max(pre_end, pair[1]);
                ++ count;
            }
        }
        
        return count;
    }
};
```

# Knowledge

### Greedy algorithm

A __greedy algorithm__ is an algorithmic paradigm that follows the problem solving heuristic of making the locally optimal choice at each stage with the hope of finding a global optimum. __In many problems, a greedy strategy does not in general produce an optimal solution, but nonetheless a greedy heuristic may yield locally optimal solutions that approximate a global optimal solution in a reasonable time.__

For example, a greedy strategy for the traveling salesman problem (which is of a high computational complexity) is the following heuristic: "At each stage visit an unvisited city nearest to the current city". This heuristic need not find a best solution, but terminates in a reasonable number of steps; finding an optimal solution typically requires unreasonably many steps. In mathematical optimization, greedy algorithms solve combinatorial problems having the properties of matroids.

__Greedy algorithms mostly (but not always) fail to find the globally optimal solution, because they usually do not operate exhaustively on all the data. They can make commitments to certain choices too early which prevent them from finding the best overall solution later.__

If a greedy algorithm can be proven to yield the global optimum for a given problem class, it typically becomes the method of choice because it is faster than other optimization methods like dynamic programming. Examples of such greedy algorithms are Kruskal's algorithm and Prim's algorithm for finding minimum spanning trees, and the algorithm for finding optimum Huffman trees.

### How to prove greedy algorithm is correct

https://cs.stackexchange.com/questions/59964/how-to-prove-greedy-algorithm-is-correct

Principle: If you never make a bad choice, you'll do OK.

Greedy algorithms usually involve a sequence of choices. The basic proof strategy is that we're going to try to prove that the algorithm never makes a bad choice. Greedy algorithms can't backtrack -- once they make a choice, they're committed and will never undo that choice -- so it's critical that they never make a bad choice.

What would count as a good choice? If there's a single optimal solution, it's easy to see what is a good choice: any choice that's identical to the one made by the optimal solution. In other words, we'll try to prove that, at any stage in the execution of the greedy algorithms, the sequence of choices made by the algorithm so far exactly matches some prefix of the optimal solution. If there are multiple equally-good optimal solutions, a good choice is one that is consistent with at least one of the optima. In other words, if the algorithm's sequence of choices so far matches a prefix of one of the optimal solutions, everything's fine so far (nothing has gone wrong yet).

To simplify life and eliminate distractions, let's focus on the case where there are no ties: there's a single, unique optimal solution. All the machinery will carry over to the case where there can be multiple equally-good optima without any fundamental changes, but you have to be a bit more careful about the technical details. Start by ignoring those details and focusing on the case where the optimal solution is unique; that'll help you focus on what is essential.

There's a very common proof pattern that we use. We'll work hard to prove the following property of the algorithm:

__Claim: Let ```S``` be the solution output by the algorithm and ```O``` be the optimum solution. If ```S``` is different from ```O```, then we can tweak ```O``` to get another solution ```O'``` that is different from ```O``` and strictly better than ```O```.__

